DOC-1743: TinyMCE 6.1 release notes (#2464)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/6.1-release-notes.adoc

With this update, this setting has been corrected, from `RealKeys.text(\n)` to `RealKeys.combo({}, 'enter')`. As a consequence, the Enhanced Media Embed webdriver tests now pass in all supported browsers, as expected.

For information on the **Enhanced Media Embed** plugin, see: xref:enhancedmediaembed.adoc[Enhanced Media Embed plugin].

=== Page Embed 2.1.0

The {productname} 6.1 release includes an accompanying release of the **Page Embed** premium plugin.

**Page Embed** 2.1.0 includes the following enhancement:

==== The entirety of the Page Embed dialog can now be translated

Previously, four elements in the Page Embed dialog presented in English when the configured language was not English.

Three elements — the text-box label, *Long description URL*, and the checkbox labels *Show iframe border*, and *Enable scrollbar* — presented in English when the configured language was Vietnamese, Hindi, Malay, Japanese or Dutch.

A fourth element — the *Scrollbar* label — presented in English no matter the configured language (ie, it was not translated in to any non-English language).

> With this update, all these elements have been setup so as to be translatable into all confifigurable languages. As well, translations in to all currently supported languages have been added. When {productname} is switched to another language, these elements now appear in that language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this update, all these elements have been setup so as to be translatable into all configurable languages. As well, translations in to all currently supported languages have been added. When {productname} is switched to another language, these elements now appear in that language.
```

=== The default value for `end_container_on_empty_block` option has been changed to `blockquote`

Previously, the `end_container_on_empty_block` took a boolean value and, by default, that value was `false`.

As part of the changes made to enable the _pressing Enter or Return twice exits an in-document `blockquote` element_ change noted above, this option’s default value has been changed.

As of {productname} 6.1, `end_container_on_empty_block` takes the value `blockquote` by default.

NOTE: The boolean values, `true` and `false` remain valid values to assign to this option.

=== Custom elements are now treated as non-empty elements by the schema

Previously {productname} treated custom elements as empty elements. The {productname} schema was such that the `isEmpty` check returned `true` for all custom elements.

With this update the {productname} schema has been updated; the `isEmpty` check now returns `false` for custom elements. 

=== The autocompleter's menu HTML element is now positioned instead of the wrapper

> The `autocompleter` menu element presents a menu of formatting options. If the current viewport is too small to present the entire menu, access to the ‘overflow’ is ensured by presenting a scrollbar in the menu.

Reviewer: This still isn't quite correct as it can be any configured menu item.
```suggestion
The `autocompleter` menu element presents a menu of related options. If the current viewport is too small to present the entire menu, access to the ‘overflow’ is ensured by presenting a scrollbar in the menu.
```

The `keydown` event does not propagate outside the component listening for it and neither should the `KeyUp` event.

As of this update, this is the behavior: pressing the *esc* key closes or exits an active user-interface component and neither the `keydown` or `keyup` event are propagated outside the component listening for these events.

=== Selection direction was not stored or restored when getting or setting selection bookmarks

_Selection direction_ is a real-time state that ‘knows’ where the current text selection began and, consequently, ‘knows’ which direction of pointer movement or which arrow key selects more text or de-selects already selected text.

For example, consider a document containing words written in a left-to-right script and an insertion point set at the end of a word. A user then holds down the Shift key and presses the left-arrow key. The selection direction for this moment and this action is set by said action. While the Shift key is held down, pressing the left-arrow key adds letters to the selection and pressing the right-arrow key removes letters from the selection.

> When a {productname} document had *View > Show invisible characters* checked and text was selected in this manner, and the user paused for a second or two, pausing the selection extension, the `moveToBookmark` function passed the current selection to `getBookmark` and then restored the selection in the document.

Reviewer: This edit isn't quite right because `moveToBookmark` doesn't call `getBookmark`. You have the steps correct below though, so is this even needed? If so maybe something like this:
```suggestion
When a {productname} document had *View > Show invisible characters* checked and text was selected in this manner, and the user paused for a second or two, pausing the selection extension, a bookmark was used to store and then restore the selection in the document.
```

* xref:bug-fixes[Bug fixes]
* xref:changes[Changes]
* xref:improvements[Improvements]
* xref:additions[Additions]
* xref:known-issues[Known issues]

[[accompanying-premium-plugin-changes]]
== Accompanying Premium Plugin changes

The following premium plugin updates were released alongside {productname} 6.1.

=== A11ychecker 3.0.2

The {productname} 6.1 release includes an accompanying release of the **A11ychecker** premium plugin.

**A11ychecker** 3.0.2 fixes the following UI bug:

The *Tools > Accessibility Checker* menu item opens a dialog. As such, its menu title should be *Accessibility Checker…*.

The trailing ellipsis indicates the action will not execute without further user input and is required for all menu items that present dialogs. And, previously, this menu item did not.

This update corrects the menu title. *Tools > Accessibility Checker…* now includes the required ellipsis and presents as expected.

For information on the **A11ychecker** plugin, see: xref:a11ychecker.adoc[A11ychecker plugin].

=== Comments 3.1.0

The {productname} 6.1 release includes an accompanying release of the **Comments** premium plugin.

> NOTE: Enabling any of these features depends on changes made to the Core {productname} editor. As a consequence, version 3.1.0 of the xref:comments.adoc[Comments Premium Plugin] requires {productname} 6.1 or later. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Enabling any of these features depends on changes made to the Core {productname} editor. As a consequence, version 3.1.0 of the xref:introduction-to-tiny-comments.adoc[Comments Premium Plugin] requires {productname} 6.1 or later. 
```
This link was broken as `comments.adoc` doesn't exist.

The new API also supports an `after` option.

[source,js]
----
editor.plugins.tinycomments.getEventLog(
  { after: '<iso-8601-format-time-stamp>' }
)
----

restricts the returned list to Comment events after the time-stamp date.

Underlying this new API is a new `CommentChange` event, which gets fired when any modification is made to Comments data.

This new event also exposes the `getEventLog()` API. For example:

[source,js]
----
editor.on('CommentChange', (e) => {
  const logs = e.getEventLogs();
});
----

==== Avatars can now be displayed next to usernames in comments

{productname} now generates a different default avatar icon for each user.

And this default icon, presented next to user names in comments, can be replaced with a custom avatar.

In embedded mode, the avatar is supplied by the `tinycomments_author_avatar` option:

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea', // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'tinycomments',
  tinycomments_mode: "embedded",
  tinycomments_author: "testuser",
  tinycomments_author_name: "Test User",
  tinycomments_author_avatar: "https://example.com/image.ext"
});
----

> In callback mode, the avatar is supplied via the `tinycomments_create` and `tinycoments_reply` callbacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In callback mode, the avatar is supplied via `authorAvatar` property in the `tinycomments_create` and `tinycoments_reply` callbacks.
```
Maybe something like this so that it's clear what property name to use?

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea', // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'tinycomments',
  tinycomments_mode: 'callback',
  tinycomments_create: create_comment, // Add the callback to TinyMCE
  tinycomments_reply: reply_comment,   // Add the callback to TinyMCE
  tinycomments_edit_comment: edit_comment,
  tinycomments_delete: delete_comment_thread,
  tinycomments_delete_all: delete_all_comment_threads,
  tinycomments_delete_comment: delete_comment,
  tinycomments_lookup: lookup_comment,
  tinycomments_author: "testuser",
  tinycomments_author_name: "Test User",

>   tinycomments_author_avatar: "https://example.com/image.ext"

Reviewer: These 3 options only relate to embedded mode so we probably don't want to include them in a callback mode example.

= TinyMCE 6.1
:navtitle: TinyMCE 6.1
:description: Release notes for TinyMCE 6.1
:keywords: releasenotes, new, changes, bugfixes

include::partial$misc/admon-releasenotes-for-stable.adoc[]

[[overview]]
== Overview

{productname} 6.1 was released for {enterpriseversion} and {cloudname} on Wednesday, July 13^th^, 2022. It includes {productname} 6.1 and additional changes to premium plugins. These release notes provide an overview of the changes for {productname} 6.1:

* xref:accompanying-premium-plugin-changes[Accompanying Premium Plugin changes]
* xref:accompanying-premium-skins-and-icon-packs-changes[Accompanying Premium Skins and Icon Packs changes]
* xref:bug-fixes[Bug fixes]
* xref:changes[Changes]
* xref:improvements[Improvements]

> * xref:additions[Additions]

Reviewer: This seems like all the content here is out of order/backwards... the structure we've always used at Tiny is: `New features` -> `Improvements` -> `Changes` -> `Bug fixes`. There's marketing reason behind that as well, since it's new features that are enticing to potential customers.

- [ ] Fix the release notes order so that it follows the structure we're supposed to use

* xref:known-issues[Known issues]

[[accompanying-premium-plugin-changes]]
== Accompanying Premium Plugin changes

The following premium plugin updates were released alongside {productname} 6.1.

=== A11ychecker 3.0.2

> The {productname} vnumtxt release includes an accompanying release of the **A11ychecker** premium plugin.

Reviewer 2: Is the `vnumtxt` here, and elsewhere, meant to be a variable?

Reviewer 3: I assume it'll have to be hard coded as `6.1`, the way it is a couple of lines above?

Author: It’s placeholder text, not a variable. Just now replaced the placeholder with the actual text: `6.1`.

Thanks for the catch.

**A11ychecker** 3.0.2 fixes the following UI bug:

The *Tools > Accessibility Checker* command opens a dialog. As such, its menu title should be *Accessibility Checker…*.

> The trailing ellipsis indicates the command will not execute without further user input and is required for all menu commands that present dialogs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The trailing ellipsis indicates the action will not execute without further user input and is required for all menu items that present dialogs.
```
Commands has a different meaning within TinyMCE so we should avoid it for this use case.

> This update corrects both the menu title and the equivalently mis-presented toolbar tool tip text. Both strings now include the required ellipsis and present as *Accessibility Checker…*, as expected.

Reviewer: This is incorrect... it was only the menu item that was changed.

Author: Corrected.

For information on the **A11ychecker** plugin, see: xref:a11ychecker.adoc[A11ychecker plugin].

> === Comments 3.1.0

Reviewer: This section appears to be missing quite a bit of information... here's the 3.1.0 changelog and you can see there's nothing about the fixes:
```
### Added
- Added a title to the comment sidebar panel #TINY-8770
- Added the `tinycomments_author_avatar` option to provide a custom avatar for the current author #TINY-8695
- Added new `getEventLog` API to get a log of comment changes #TINY-8769
- Added new `CommentChange` event that gets fired when any comment specific change is made #TINY-8769

### Improved
- Comments now use a provided or generated avatar instead of showing the same icon for all users #TINY-8695
- Various block elements can now be be commented on directly #TINY-8698
- Various block elements now have an outline around them to visually indicate they are part of a comment #TINY-8698

### Changed
- Save buttons for new comments and replies are now named "Comment" instead of "Save" #TINY-8696
- The CSS styles are loaded earlier than before #TINY-8710
- Replaced "Say something ..." comment placeholder text with "Add comment..." #TINY-8782

### Fixed
- The `change` event was not fired when deleting all conversations #TINY-8561
- An additional undo level was incorrectly created when the initial HTML included embedded comment data #TINY-8498
- Opening the comments sidebar via an editor command did not respect the `skip_focus` argument #TINY-8655
- Creating or editing a comment was not blocking the UI while saving the data in callback mode #TINY-8666
- A selected `hr` block could be commented on when it should not have been possible #TINY-8698
- Previous comment replies were retained in the comment placeholder after the comment had been submitted #TINY-8736
- The comment textarea will now shrink, as well as grow, in response to comment content changes #TINY-8801
```

Author: All of these changes now documented.

The {productname} vnumtxt release includes an accompanying release of the **Comments** premium plugin.

**Comments** 3.1.0 introduces the following enhancements:

==== A new event log API

> A new API, `tinymce.activeEditor.plugins.tinycomments.getEventLog()` is now available.

Reviewer 3: `activeEditor` is just a convenient way to access an editor instance, we normally shorten these to just `editor` as that's the context customers are usually in.

```suggestion
A new API, `editor.plugins.tinycomments.getEventLog()` is now available.
```

As its name suggests, it returns a log of all Comment-related events, including:

* when a new comment is added (and who added it).

> * when a coment is edited (and who edited it).

Reviewer 2: `coment` is misspelt

Author: Corrected.

* when a reply to a comment is added (and who added the reply).

* when a comment is resolved (and who resolved the comment).

* when a comment is deleted (and who deleted the comment).

The new API also supports an `after` option.

> [source,js]

Reviewer 2: should be `javascript`

Author: Frustratingly, Antora’s [highlight.bundle.js](https://gitlab.com/antora/antora-ui-default/-/blob/HEAD/src/js/vendor/highlight.bundle.js) file won’t load as I type.

But a quick search across the docs source came up with 761 `[source,js]` and no `[source,javascript]` which I’m taking as evidence `js` is the correct string.

I see you resolved this before I got to it, so I’m guessing you came to the same conclusion but I thought I should at least add a quick comment so as to not leave the impression I was ignoring or overlooking feedback.

////
tinymce.activeEditor.plugins.tinycomments.getEventLog(
	{after: '<iso-8601-format-time-stamp>'}
	)

> ////

Reviewer 2: use `----` for code, `/` comments out this block

Author: Corrected. And, I know this. <sigh>. Too much recent ‘putting my notes to self in comment blocks’ I suspect.

> ////
> tinymce.activeEditor.plugins.tinycomments.getEventLog(
> 	{after: '<iso-8601-format-time-stamp>'}
> 	)
> ////

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
----
tinymce.activeEditor.plugins.tinycomments.getEventLog(
	{after: '<iso-8601-format-time-stamp>'}
	)
----
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
editor.plugins.tinycomments.getEventLog(
  { after: '<iso-8601-format-time-stamp>' }
)
----
```
The indentation and formatting is also incorrect here, so fixed that as well.

restricts the returned list to Comment events after the time-stamp date.

> Underlying this new API is a new `CommentChange` event, which gets fired when any modification is made to Comments data.

Reviewer: Do we need to mention the new event also exposes the `getEventLog()` API? For example you can do:
```ts
editor.on('CommentChange', (e) => {
  const logs = e.getEventLogs();
});
```

Author: Seems like a worthwhile thing to mention. So I ‘[a]dded a code-example to show the new `CommentChange` event (part of the new event log API) can also expose the `getEventLog()` API.’ (And, yes, this quote is from where you’d expect: my `git` commit message.)

> ==== Avatars can now be displayed next to usernames in comments

Reviewer: This is missing that the avatar is no longer the same for everyone and that it's now a generated avatar if a custom avatar isn't provided.

Author: Added notes to this effect to this section.

The default icon presented next to user names in comments can now be replaced by a custom avatar.

In embedded mode, the avatar is supplied by the `tinycomments_author_avatar` option:

[source,js]
----
    plugins: [
        "tinycomments",
    ],
	tinycomments_mode: "embedded",
	tinycomments_author: "testuser",
	tinycomments_author_name: "Test User",
	tinycomments_author_avatar: "https://example.com/image.ext",

> ----

Reviewer 2: indentation of this code block should be improved

Reviewer 3: tabs vs spaces! go!

Reviewer: This also don't follow our style guide conventions... see https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/blob/staging/docs-6/CONTRIBUTING.md#code-snippets

So it should be something like this instead:
```ts
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea', // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'tinycomments',
  tinycomments_mode: "embedded",
  tinycomments_author: "testuser",
  tinycomments_author_name: "Test User",
  tinycomments_author_avatar: "https://example.com/image.ext"
});
```

Author: Corrected to follow the style guide.

In callback mode, the avatar is supplied by the `avatar` option of `setConverstation()`:

[source,js]
----
const avatarUrl = "https://example.com/image.ext";

/*

much non-avatar-related configuration here

*/

      setConversation(conversationUid, [
        {
          author,
		  avatar: avatarUrl,
          createdAt,
          modifiedAt: createdAt,
          content,
          uid: conversationUid /* first comment has same uid as conversation */,
        },
      ]);

> ----

Reviewer: This entire section is incorrect... `setConversation` isn't a comments API (I think it's from our mock demo on the docs instead?). Instead it's done via the create/reply callbacks, see: https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/comments-callback-mode/#tinycomments_create and https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/comments-callback-mode/#tinycomments_reply

Author: Corrected the first code-sample above. And added a place-holder code-sample in place of the entirely incorrect section.

I’ve spent time going through the linked docs and am inclined to think a callback code-sample here will need to be very long. Not a bad thing, per se, but, if my inclination is correct, I’m not sure two lengthy samples are entirely helpful here.

Author: From some of the changes made to my place-holder code-sample, I’m inferring said place-holder is adequate as a not-place-holder example.

> ----

Reviewer 2: indentation of this code block should be improved

Author: This code-block is no longer in the document to be improved.

In both modes the avatar:

> * must be 36px by 36px.

Reviewer: This isn't correct... the image can be any size and we have the CSS configured to scale it. For best presentation though, it should be something that will fit inside a circle with a 36px diameter.

* can be any filetype able to be wrapped in an `<img>` element.

> * will present as the browser’s default ‘image not found’ icon if the avatar resource is not available at the nominated URL.

Reviewer: This isn't something we should be including in the release notes, as this means the integrator has configured things incorrectly.

Author: Removed the third bullet point.

> NOTE: Enablng this feature depends on changes made to the Core {productname} editor. As a consequence, showing avatars next to the user-name in comments requires both {productname} 6.1 or later and version 3.1.0 or later of the xref:comments.adoc[Comments Premium Plugin].

Reviewer: This feels like it's in the wrong place... the entire comments plugin now needs 6.1 or higher so it's not tied to this feature alone.

Author: Moved the note to near the beginning of the Comments section, and edited it into general form.

==== Show comments sidebar on editor initialization

It is now possible to initialize a {productname} editor with a comment sidebar automatically visible and available but with focus still in the main editor.

To add a comment sidebar add `sidebar_show: 'showcomments'` to `tinymce.init`:

[source,js]

> ----
> tinymce.init({
>     selector: "textarea",
> 	sidebar_show: 'showcomments',
> });
> ----

Reviewer: Again this snippet doesn't follow the style guide, so this should correct it:
```suggestion
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: "textarea", // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'tinycomments',
  sidebar_show: 'showcomments',
});
----
```

Author: Added the corrected code-sample locally (and then pushed to the branch). I’d already done so many local edits at this point the prospect of changing the file from two directions (so to speak) and merging was… unpleasant.

> ----

Reviewer 2: indentation of this code block should be improved

Author: Indentation improved.

> For a customised comments sidebar, setup the sidebar in the `setup` section of `tinymce.init`:

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure this is correct - we don't provide customers the capability to render the comments sidebar themselves?

Reviewer 3: I think this block of code is correct where it's listed in the improvements section, below, but it doesn't belong here with the comments update discussion.

Reviewer: Yeah this definitely isn't correct.

Author: Sing along with me: here’s another `git` commit message.

Removed ‘customised comments sidebar’ and associated code sample from Comments Premium Plugin section.

[source,js]
----
	setup: (editor) => {
	  editor.ui.registry.addSidebar('showcomments', {
		tooltip: 'showcomments',
		icon: 'comment',
		onSetup: (api) => {
		  console.log('Render panel', api.element());
		},
		onShow: (api) => {
		  console.log('Show panel', api.element());
		},
		onHide: (api) => {
		  console.log('Hide panel', api.element());
		}
	  });
	}

> ----

Reviewer 2: indentation of this code block should be improved

Author: This code-block is no longer in the document to be improved.

NOTE: The comment sidebar presents with no animation or other effect. It is just there, along with any other initialised {productname} editor components. Also, as noted above, the sidebar does not take focus, which remains with the main editor.

==== Support annotating certain block elements directly when using the editor annotator API

> Several new block elements can now have comments attached to them, including:

Reviewer 3: I think we either need to refer to these as "annotations" or "comments" on block elements, not a mixture of both. I suggest the latter, leave the underlying annotation details for regular API documentation.

Reviewer 3: this is repeated in the improvements section - I think "comments" here and "annotations" below.

Reviewer: Yeah agreed this should be comments here, as it's about the comments changes. The editor annotator API doesn't apply here.

Author: Continuing with the running theme (another `git` commit message):

Edits to annotating block elements with changed editor annotator API section.

Now centres annotations in this section. Near-equivalent section in the Comments Premium Plugin section focuses on comments (a type of annotation).

Also corrected a repeated typo: s/Enablng/Enabling/.

* Tables of contents
* Images
* Images with captions
* Code samples
* media in iframes
* embedded media
* embedded pages

> When comments are showing, a 3px wide yellow (hex color #FFE89D) rectangle presents around any element with a comment attached.

Reviewer 2: There are different shades of yellow highlight for selected and unselected commented elements

Reviewer: It can also change based on the skin/content css, so I think we'd just be better to drop the hex color code.

Author: Edited out the color code. Added slighly more generic info about the defaults and their changeability. To wit:

`When comments are showing, a 3px wide colored rectangle presents around any element with a comment attached. By default this rectangle presents in two shades of yellow: one for commented elements which are selected and one for commented elements which are not selected. Using a Skin can, however, change this default.`

NOTE: Enablng this feature depends on changes made to the Core {productname} editor. As a consequence, adding comments to these elements requires both {productname} 6.1 or later and version 3.1.0 or later of the xref:comments.adoc[Comments Premium Plugin].

==== The label name for the Save Comment button can now be customized

Previously, the Save Comment was labeled *Save*. After field reports that end-users were interpreting this to mean the entire {productname} document would be saved on pressing this button, two changes have been made.

1. The default label for this button is now *Comment*.
+
This new default presents for both new comments and replies to existing comments.

2. This default label is now customisable.
+
_How does one customise this? I presume it’s a value one sets as part of `tinymce.init` but which one? And where in this configuration file?_
+

> _Or is it a matter of an integrator editing the `.pot` file — `src/text/pot/plugins/tinycomments/tinymce_tinycomments.pot` — that comes along for the ride?_

Reviewer 2: I believe the 'tinycomments_js_url' option can be used to override the default implementation, though there is no documentation for it so I can't confirm anything

Reviewer 2: The option takes a string, with the default as `pluginUrl + '/js'`, and is used as the directory in retrieving 'tinycomments-sidebar.min.js'. I believe this can be overridden with the location of a custom 'tinycomments-sidebar.min.js' containing customised UI labels.

Reviewer 2: Or perhaps the value can just be updated dynamically within the webpage

Reviewer 3: Customisation of strings is done using `addI18n`, which is a global method shared by all tinymce instances on the page.
https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/apis/tinymce.root/#addI18n

```
tinymce.addI18n('sv_SE', {
   'Comment': 'Spara kommentar'
});
```

Reviewer: It's also not really customization... it's just providing a custom translation. I personally don't think we should be including this is release notes, it's just something we tell if someone logs a support ticket normally.

Re `tinycomments_js_url` that's an internal option so shouldn't be mentioned in docs.

Author: To quote my `git` commit message:

edits to Save Comment button section.

1. Title edited to reflect it is about a new default and translatability, not customisation.

2. added code example of how to translate the button.

> NOTE: when a comment is being edited, the default button, which writes the changes back and closes the Edit Comment dialog, is still labeled *Save*.

Reviewer 2: `when` should be capitalised

Reviewer 2: there are more notes left uncapitalised in the doc

Author: To, again, quote my `git` commit message:

Multiple instances of

NOTE: [initial lower case letter here]

corrected to

NOTE: [initial upper case letter here]

I am, slowly but surely, getting this right more often than not when in Tiny-docs-writing-mode.

For information on the **Comments** plugin, see: xref:comments.adoc[Comments plugin].

=== Enhanced Media Embed 3.0.1

The {productname} vnumtxt release includes an accompanying release of the **Enhanced Media Embed** premium plugin.

**Enhanced Media Embed** 3.0.1 fixes the following bug:

==== Enhanced Media Embed tests failed in several browsers

An incorrect `RealKeys()` setting caused the Enhanced Media Embed webdriver tests to fail in several browsers (including Firefox, Microsoft Edge, and Safari).

> With this update, this setting has been corrected, from `RealKeys.text(\n)` to `RealKeys.combo({}, 'enter')`. As a consequence, the Enhanced Media Embed webdriver tests now pass in all supported browsers, as expected.

Reviewer 3: I don't know why this went into the changelog. Customers do not have access to the source code or tests of our premium plugins, so it makes no sense to talk about a test fix in the release notes.

- [ ] Remove enhanced media embed section, or perhaps leave a note that the version bump was to fix internal technical issues only?

Reviewer: Yeah this looks like the wrong details were pulled... the fix for Enhanced Media Embed was:
```
- Console warnings would incorrectly be logged when not using the media plugin #TINY-7375
```

Author: Keenly aware how passive-aggressive this sounds, but if you read the description and note for [TINY-7375](https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-7375), you’d be forgiven for presuming the fix concerned test failures.

That said, the *Enhanced Media Embed 3.0.1* section has been re-written.

Reviewer: Yeah, this was just some found while fixing the failing tests issue. It possibly should have been a separate JIRA, but this is also why it's important to look at the actual changelog I guess 🤷‍♀️

For information on the **Enhanced Media Embed** plugin, see: xref:enhancedmediaembed.adoc[Enhanced Media Embed plugin].

=== Page Embed 2.1.0

The {productname} 6.1 release includes an accompanying release of the **Page Embed** premium plugin.

> **Page Embed** 2.1.0 includes the following bug fix:

Reviewer: This section isn't correct... it never supported translations fully so this was an improvement to add the translations not a bug fix.

Author: I feel almost recalcitrant arguing the point, but [TINY-8495](https://ephocks.atlassian.net/browse/TINY-8495) presents this pretty straightforwardly as a bug:

> @ben.tran  nice find mate!
> 
> To confirm, we are missing these 3 strings for the 5 langs noted, I will followup with Lionbridge
> 
> Long description URL
> Show iframe border
> Enable scrollbar

And your comment adds to the ‘this was a bug by omission’ sense:

> please be sure to setup PageEmbed properly for translations as it’s never been properly translated.

At this point we’re discussing semantics. Which is a good thing to discuss in this particular regard. But I’m somewhat happy with the notion that, from the end-user and even integrator’s perspective, this is a correction (even if only by originally accidental omission) rather than an improvement.

Reviewer: The linked Jira is an improvement and it's already been implemented as such, so it needs to stay that way I'm afraid. The existing translations as I understand it, only worked because the strings were already translated elsewhere.

Reviewer: If you want to document it this way still though, I'm not going to argue, it's just it'll be out of sync with the items shipped in the 6.1 release 🤷

Author: Re-wrote this section to present the change as an enhancement rather than as a bug fix.

This format does not display or store safely within `+<img>+` tags.

With this update, PowerPaste converts provided PDF objects into a PNG image, which reside and display within `+<img>+` tags safely, as expected.

NOTE: With this fix PowerPaste is able to detect PDF objects and have them converted into PNG images. It does not mean PowerPaste now supports pasting from the Pages application. As of this release, PowerPaste does not specifically support pasting from Pages.

==== If URL paths contained either a colon or an exclamation point (or both) PowerPaste’s link detection logic failed

If a colon or an exclamation point — `+:+` or `+!+` was present in the path portion of a URL, PowerPaste’s link detection logic treated the characters as, in effect, end-of-path boundaries. As a consequence, while the string was pasted into {productname}, the expected link was incomplete and incorrect.

For example, pasting the string

`https://example.com/!exclamation-point`

resulted in the following, incomplete, link and trailing text

> https://example.com/[]!exclamation-point

Author: Changed this (and other equivalent examples) to an html code source example.

Equivalent results occured when URL paths contained the colon character (for example, `https://example.com/:colon`).

With this update, the link detection logic has been improved to capture and present such URLs correctly.

Now, pasting the string 

`https://example.com/!exclamation-point`

results in the following, complete, link and no trailing text

https://example.com/!exclamation-point[]

> Also, this improved link detection logic works when manually typing in a URL. If the above example were typed in to a {productname} document, the automatic link-creation would wrap the entire string in an anchor tag after a boundary character (such as a space) was typed.

Author: Moved this paragraph to the section on `autolink`.

NOTE: exclamation points and colons are still boundary characters for URL detection and delmiting. If the string `https://example.com/colon:` is pasted or typed into a {productname} document, automatic link detection will produce a link that does not include the trailing colon character.

==== Pasted URL-like strings without a defining protocol were detected as URLs but not provided with a protocol

When fully qualified domain names (FQDN), such as `www.example.com`, were pasted in to a {productname} document, they were detected as URLs, but no protocol was added to the consequent underlying `href` attribute.

As a consequence, the text would display as a clickable link but not work as such.

With this release such FQDNs are, when pasted in to place, supplied with {productname}’s default protocol — `https` — in the underlying `href` attribute. And these pasted strings now display as a clickable link and works as such, as expected.

> For information on the **PowerPaste** plugin, see: xref:powerpaste.adoc[PowerPaste plugin].

Reviewer 2: `xref:powerpaste.adoc` should be xref:introduction-to-powerpaste.adoc

Author: Corrected.

=== Real-Time Collaboration 2.1.0

The {productname} vnumtxt release includes an accompanying release of the **Real-Time Collaboration** premium plugin.

> **Real-Time Collaboration** 2.1.0 adds one new features and fixes two bugs:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Real-Time Collaboration** 2.1.0 adds one new feature and fixes two bugs:
```

==== Real-Time Collaboration can now disable inline boundaries

> xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#inline_boundaries[*Inline boundaries*] are highlights applied to certain inline elements. The exact elements highlighted can be configured with `inline_boundaries_selector` but the elements highlighted by default are `a` (anchor tags), `code`, and `.mce-annotation`.

Reviewer: Should `inline_boundaries_selector` be a link to the option as well here?

Also I don't think we should be mentioning the defaults here, as that could get outdated easily and then lead to confusion.

Author: Added a link to `inline_boundaries_selector` documentation and removed the reference to extant defaults.

Setting `inline_boundaries: false` turns this highlighting off.

With this release, Real-time Collaboration now supports this setting.

NOTE: the equivalent behavior could be achieved by setting `inline_boundaries_selector` to an empty string. And this setting was, previously supported by Real-time Collaboration (and still is). But setting `inline_boundaries` to `false` is the preferred method of turning inline element highlighting off.

> ==== Lists selected with Select All (Ctrl+A or Cmd+A) did not provide a valid fragment for `tinymce.activeEditor.selection.getContent()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Lists selected with Select All (Ctrl+A or Cmd+A) did not provide a valid fragment for `editor.selection.getContent()`
```

> If a {productname} document contained only a list, and the entire document was selected using *Edit > Select All* (or by typing Ctrl+A or Cmd+A), the selection did not present as valid to `tinymce.activeEditor.selection.getContent()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a {productname} document contained only a list, and the entire document was selected using *Edit > Select All* (or by typing Ctrl+A or Cmd+A), the selection did not present as valid to `editor.selection.getContent()`.
```

With this update, Real-time Collaboration now also checks for straight-up connectivity. And, if the connection goes down for 30 seconds, the ‘connection lost’ alert appears.

For information on the **Real-Time Collaboration** plugin, see: xref:real-timecollaboration.adoc[Real-Time Collaboration plugin].

=== Spell Checker Pro 3.0.3

The {productname} vnumtxt release includes an accompanying release of the **Spell Checker Pro** premium plugin.

**Spell Checker Pro** 3.0.3 includes the following bug fix:

==== An issue with the `DomDescent.toLeaf` API could result in Spell Checker Pro’s ‘preserve selection’ logic setting the selection when it did not need to

The `DomDescent.toLeaf` API can walk inside void elements (for example `+<br>+`). The Core editor’s selection logic, by contrast, does not allow this.

Consequently, when comparing selections where one is from `editor.selection.getRng()` and the other is created by `DomDescent.toLeaf`, the comparison can return `false` when it should be `true`.

When this happens, code runs when it does not need to: in this case, Spell Checker Pro’s ‘preserve selection’ logic.

> With this update, SpellcheckerPro now correctly handles `DomDescent.toLeaf` being able to walk into a void element, making the range comparison more accurate, and ensuring the preserve selection code does not run when not needed.

Reviewer 3: While I appreciate the technical deep-dive, and this is in fact the bug that we fixed, what it doesn't explain is the relevance to the customer. The customer relevance is:

> Spell Checker Pro could cause inline editing sections to take window focus after scrolling the window. This was particularly evident with multiple inline editors on a single page.

Reviewer: Yeah a lot of this is talking about the internals which we don't want discussed in public documentation.

Author: Quoting my `git` commit message again:

Re-written Spell Checker Pro section: less technical walk-through, more end-user behaviour change.

**Table of Contents** 1.1.0 includes the following change:

As part of making it possible to link Comments to almost any block element in a {productname} document, a `data-mce-toc` attribute is now added to the Table of Contents wrapper `div` while editing.

This is an internal attribute, used as part of keeping comments attributed to the correct block element. It has no user- or integrator-facing impact.

For information on the **Table of Contents** plugin, see: xref:tableofcontents.adoc[Table of Contents plugin].

[[accompanying-premium-skins-and-icon-packs-changes]]
== Accompanying Premium Skins and Icon Packs changes

The {productname} 6.1 release includes an accompanying release of the **Premium Skins and Icon Packs**.

=== Premium Skins and Icon Packs

The **Premium Skins and Icon Packs** release includes the following bug fix:

When using a Premium skin and the xref:comments.adoc[Comments plugin], avatars in the comments overflowed their bounds and covered the comment text in the Comments side-bar.

This **Premium Skins and Icons Packs** release has been re-built to pull in the changes required to correct this.

> When a Premium skin and the Comments plugin are now used together, avatars stay within their bounds as they do in the {productname} default skin, and comment text is not hidden.

Reviewer: This wasn't a fix done in this release, so this shouldn't be mentioned here. This was only a temporarily dev issue while working on 6.1 changes.

For the changes in the release, it's just a rebuild to pull in the `oxide` changes done for 6.1 as a whole.

Author: Edited to remove the ‘found and presented internally only’ bug documentation and made the ‘rolled the Oxide changes into the Premium Packs’ material explicit.

For information on using premium skins and icon packs, see: xref:premium-skins-and-icons.adoc[Premium Skins and Icon Packs].

[[bug-fixes]]
== Bug fixes

{productname} 6.1 provides fixes for the following bugs:

> === Inconsistent visual behavior between choosing Edit -> Select All and typing Ctrl-A or ⌘-A when a document contained an image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Inconsistent visual behavior between choosing Edit -> Select All and typing Ctrl+A or ⌘+A when a document contained an image.
```
As discussed previously, this should be a `+` for key combinations.

> Previously, if a {productname} editor document included an image, typing the Select All keyboard shortcut (Ctrl-A or ⌘-A) caused the image handler (the visual indicator that the image is selected) to appear around the image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, if a {productname} editor document included an image, typing the Select All keyboard shortcut (Ctrl+A or ⌘+A) caused the image handler (the visual indicator that the image is selected) to appear around the image.
```

However, if Edit -> Select All was chosen from the {productname} menu bar, the image handler did not display.

The image handler display was a visual error. It should not present unless the image is the only selected object. _Select All_ selects the whole {productname} document, not just the image.

> With this update, typing Ctrl-A or ⌘-A, or choosing _Edit -> Select All_ from the {productname} menu bar, both produce the same effect (the entire document is selected) and the same visual presentation (the image handler outline does not display).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this update, typing Ctrl+A or ⌘+A, or choosing _Edit -> Select All_ from the {productname} menu bar, both produce the same effect (the entire document is selected) and the same visual presentation (the image handler outline does not display).
```

> === Links opened when Alt-Return or Option-Return was typed even when `preventDefault()` was called on the keydown event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Links opened when Alt+Enter or Option+Return was typed even when `preventDefault()` was called on the keydown event
```

When the insertion point was within text that was also a link, typing Alt-Return or Option-Return opened the link in a new browser tab. This behavior, while non-destructive, is incorrect.

With this update, {productname} behaves as expected: when the insertion point is within text which is, itself, within an anchor tag, typing Alt-Return or Option-Return does nothing.

=== Spaces were not added correctly on some browsers when the insertion point was immediately before or after a `contenteditable` block element

In some browser, if a {productname} document contained text immediately adjacent to a block element with a `contenteditable` property, and the insertion point was placed between the text and the block element, pressing the space bar appeared to not add the space character, as expected.

For example, if a {productname} document contained the following —

[source,html]

> ----
> <p style="margin: 0; word-break: break-word;">
> text
> 	<strong>
> 		<span contenteditable="false" style="display: block;">
> 		and not-editable words on a following line
> 		</span>
> 	</strong>
> </p>" 
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
<p style="margin: 0; word-break: break-word;">
text
  <strong>
    <span contenteditable="false" style="display: block;">
      and not-editable words on a following line
    </span>
  </strong>
</p>" 
----
```

— placing the insertion point after the word _text_ and pressing the space bar would not work as expected in some browsers.

{productname} 6.1 fixes this error. Now, when the insertion point is in such a point in a {productname} document, pressing the space-bar adds a space, as expected.

=== Images were not showing as selected when selected along with other content

Previously, when an image was one of the selected objects in a {productname} document, the image did not present with the _Selected_ background color like text objects do. (In most browsers the _show the object is selected_ colour is, by default, blue.)

The image was selected, but there was no visual feedback to show this.

> With this update, images that are selected as part of a mult-object selection show the same _Selected_ background color as other objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this update, images that are selected as part of a multi-object selection show the same _Selected_ background color as other objects.
```

NOTE: When an image is the only selected object, the image handler outline, complete with resize handles, shows the image is selected. This was the behavior previously, and continues to be the behavior with this new release.

=== Images that used a Data URI were corrupted when the data wasn’t Base64 encoded

Previously, the {productname} upload logic incorrectly assumed all data URIs used Base64 encoding. As a consequence, if a data URI used, for example, percent-encoding (also known as URL encoding), the data was corrupted.

For this update, the upload logic has been corrected. Data URIs are no longer assumed to all be Base64 encoded and using other encoding methods (such as percent-encoding) does not cause the data to be corrupted.

=== Notifications did not properly reposition when toggling fullscreen mode

A {productname} toolbar option, *Fullscreen*, toggles the {productname} editor between the size it takes by default and, as the toolbar’s name suggests, fullscreen. Fullscreen is the largest size available to the editor (ie, taking up all the space available to {productname} in the browser).

> If a {productname} instance had a custom notification, `+editor.notificationManager.open+`, set to display when the *Fullscreen* button was used, toggling from Fullscreen back to default resulted in the notification displaying outside the {productname} editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a {productname} instance had a custom notification, `+editor.notificationManager.open()+`, set to display when the *Fullscreen* button was used, toggling from Fullscreen back to default resulted in the notification displaying outside the {productname} editor.
```
Just to show it's a function?

With this update, this behavior has been corrected. When a {productname} dialog is open and the viewport is re-sized, the dialog now re-sizes such that both the top and bottom borders of the dialog are always within the current viewport.

=== Some function types in the TreeWalker API missed that it could return `undefined`

Backspacing through material in an active {productname} editor could, in some circumstances, result in the insertion point stepping into a table and continue deleting where the expected behavior was for the insertion point to stop on the line below the table.

In investigating and fixing this issue (see immediately below) it was also found that some function types in the `tinymce.dom.TreeWalker` class did not detect that the class could return an `undefined` value.

This has been corrected and all `tinymce.dom.TreeWalker` functions now correctly detect `undefined` values when these are returned.

> === In some cases pressing the Backspace or Delete key would incorrectly step into tables rather than remain outside

Reviewer: Maybe this should be above the previous release note? It reads weirdly to have the intro section to the above be before this entry.

In some circumstances, when a table was followed immediately by a text paragraph, and the user deleted the text paragraph by back-spacing through each character, pressing the backspace character after the last character was removed resulted in the insertion point moving in to the table. If the user continued pressing the backspace key, material in the table’s bottom-right cell was deleted.

The expected behavior when backspacing on an empty line immediately following a table is for the insertion point to not move at all.

With this update, {productname} behaves as expected. Pressing the backspace key on an empty line immediately following a table produces no change to the insertion point location.

> === Text alignments, such as flush left and centered, could not be applied to `<pre>` elements

Reviewer: Is `flush` correct here? I've never heard that mentioned and seems out of context, so it might be confusing to customers reading this as well.

Author: [Flush left, and flush right](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typographic_alignment), are the standard terms for these two typesetting options.

The other two in the standard set of four are justified (aka fully-justified) and centred.

With this update, {productname} now supports applying, altering and removing `align` styles to text set in `+<pre>+` tags.

=== Nuget packages for .NET and .NET Core are now configured to copy TinyMCE into `/wwwroot/lib/` when TinyMCE is installed into a project

Previously, the {productname} Nuget package did not automatically copy {productname} in to `/wwwroot/lib/` when installing {productname} into a .NET project.

This resulted in {productname} not working as expected (or at all).

This error has been corrected with this update. Installing the {productname} Nuget package into a .NET project automatically places {productname} in `/wwwroot/lib`, as expected.

=== UI components, such as dialogs, would in some cases cause the esc keyup event to incorrectly trigger inside the editor

In {productname} the *esc* (Escape) key can be used to exit or ‘escape’ from an active user-interface component. If a menu is open, pressing the esc key closes the menu. If a dialog is present, pressing the esc closes the dialog.

> {productname} responds to the `KeyDown` event and exits the active element when the *esc* key is pressed. Previously, however, the consequent `KeyUp` event (generated when the user stops pressing the *esc* key) was propogated to the {productname} editor. This should not have happened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{productname} responds to the `keydown` event and exits the active element when the *esc* key is pressed. Previously, however, the consequent `keyup` event (generated when the user stops pressing the *esc* key) was propagated to the {productname} editor. This should not have happened.
```

Author: Corrected this locally and pushed up to the branch because I’d already corrected some of these errors locally before coming to this.

> The `KeyDown` event does not propagate outside the component listening for it and neither should the `KeyUp` event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `keydown` event does not propagate outside the component listening for it and neither should the `keyup` event.
```

Author: Corrected this locally and pushed up to the branch because I’d already corrected some of these errors locally before coming to this.

> As of this update, this is the behavior: pressing the *esc* key closes or exits an active user-interface component and neither the `KeyDown` or `KeyUp event are propogated outside the component listening for these events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of this update, this is the behavior: pressing the *esc* key closes or exits an active user-interface component and neither the `keydown` or `keyup` event are propagated outside the component listening for these events.
```

Author: Corrected this locally and pushed up to the branch because I’d already corrected some of these errors locally before coming to this.

> === Selection direction was not stored/restored when getting/setting selection bookmarks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Selection direction was not stored or restored when getting or setting selection bookmarks
```
Per the style guide we shouldn't be using `/` so just correcting that to match the fixes we did in the TinyMCE changelog.

_Selection direction_ is a real-time state that ‘knows’ where the current text selection began and, consequently, ‘knows’ which direction of pointer movement or which arrow key selects more text or de-selects already selected text.

For example, consider a document containing words written in a left-to-right script and an insertion point set at the end of a word. A user then holds down the Shift key and presses the left-arrow key. The selection direction for this moment and this action is set by said action. While the Shift key is held down, pressing the left-arrow key adds letters to the selection and pressing the right-arrow key removes letters from the selection.

When a {productname} document had *View > Show invisible characters* checked and text was selected in this manner, and the user paused for a second or two, pausing the selection extentsion, the `moveToBookmark` function copied the current selection into a bookmark and then restored the selection in the document.

> In doing this, however, the selection direction was lost, because `movetoBookmark` did not store the selection direction state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In doing this, however, the selection direction was lost, because `moveToBookmark` did not store the selection direction state.
```

Reviewer: Also this isn't technically correct... it's `getBookmark` that didn't store the selection direction, meaning `moveToBookmark` couldn't restore it.

When a user re-started the selection process by pressing the right arrow key, {productname} extended the selection from the right-most already-selected letter rather than, as expected, removing the left-most already-selected letter from the selection.

As of this update, `moveToBookmark` now stores and restores selection direction. And pausing and restarting a selection as described above works as expected.

=== In some versions of Safari, the `editor.selection.isForward()` API could throw an exception due to an invalid selection

> When running within some versions of Safari, a bug in the `editor.selection.isForward()` API produced an invalid selection resulting in the `input` value provided to `input.parentNode.removeChild(input)` being `null`.

Reviewer: This is incorrect and the second part of this sentence was about a test so shouldn't be in release notes.

So to be clear, the problem is that Safari itself can end up with an invalid selection and because of that it caused an exception to be thrown when calling `editor.selection.isForward()`. So TinyMCE now handles that invalid selection more gracefully, it didn't cause the invalid selection though.

Author: *`editor.selection.isForward()` API exception* section re-written, properly sheeting the blame home to Safari and not the API.

`null` is not a valid value for `input` and, as a consequence, an exception was thrown.

With this update, the `editor.selection.isForward()` API bug has been corrected, invalid selections no longer occur, a valid `input` value is passed to `input.parentNode.removeChild(input)`, and exceptions are no longer thrown.

> === The InsertParagraph or `mceInsertNewLine` commands did not delete the current selection like the native command does

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== The `InsertParagraph` or `mceInsertNewLine` commands did not delete the current selection like the native command does
```

> The `insertParagraph` command was added to provide a {productname}-native replication of browser implementations of this functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `InsertParagraph` command was added to provide a {productname}-native replication of browser implementations of this functionality.
```

> However, when a string was selected and the `insertParagraph` was then executed, it did not delete the selected string and insert the paragraph break as expected. Instead, the command inserted a paragraph break at the beginning of the selected string and added the selection to the new trailing paragraph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, when a string was selected and the `InsertParagraph` was then executed, it did not delete the selected string and insert the paragraph break as expected. Instead, the command inserted a paragraph break at the beginning of the selected string and added the selection to the new trailing paragraph.
```

> With this update, this behavior has been corrected. Selecting a string and running `tinymce.activeEditor.execCommand('insertParagraph');` now replaces the selection with a paragraph break, as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this update, this behavior has been corrected. Selecting a string and running `editor.execCommand('InsertParagraph');` now replaces the selection with a paragraph break, as expected.
```

With this update, triple-clicking text a paragraph above a `contenteditable` structure and below an already selected paragraph selects the clicked-on paragraph, no matter the host browser.

NOTE: this update works around a Google Chrome bug by implementing on-triple-click selection behavior within {productname} regardless of the host browser.

=== When text within an inline boundary element was selected and the right-arrow key was pressed, the insertion point incorrectly moved to the left

{productname} provides an `inline_boundaries_selector` option. If this option is loaded, by default, it sets `a[href]`,`code`, and `.mce-annotation` as the elements inline boundaries apply to. Other inline elements — such as `strong`, `em` and `span` — can be added to these defaults.

Previously, however, when a custom `inline_boundaries_selector` was initialised in a {productname} document, an erroneous keyboard navigation behavior presented.

For example, if the following was added to `tinymce.init` —

[source,js]

> ===
> tinymce.init({
>   selector: 'textarea',
>   inline_boundaries_selector: 'span'
> });
> ===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea', // change this value according to your HTML
  inline_boundaries_selector: 'span'
});
----
```
Just fixing some incorrect markup and the example didn't fully follow the style guide.

— and text set within `<span></span>` tags was selected, pressing the right arrow key caused the text to be de-selected (expected behavior) and the insertion point to present to the left of the previously selected text (entirely not expected behavior).

{productname} 6.1 corrects this. In the same circumstances as above, pressing the right arrow key in {productname} 6.1 puts the insertion point to the *right* of the newly de-selected text, as expected.

=== Indenting or outdenting list items inside a block element that was inside another list item did not work

> If a list element within a list was also inside a block element, such as a <div></div>, placing the insertion point within any of the displayed lists and pressing *Tab* or *Shift-Tab* did not act as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a list element within a list was also inside a block element, such as a `<div></div>`, placing the insertion point within any of the displayed lists and pressing *Tab* or *Shift+Tab* did not act as expected.
```

> Instead of indenting the list element (if *Tab* was pressed) or outdenting the list element (if *Shift-Tab* was pressed), nothing happened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of indenting the list element (if *Tab* was pressed) or outdenting the list element (if *Shift+Tab* was pressed), nothing happened.
```

> With this update, when the insertion point is in a list within a list within another block element, pressing *Tab* or *Shift-Tab* behaves as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this update, when the insertion point is in a list within a list within another block element, pressing *Tab* or *Shift+Tab* behaves as expected.
```

> If *Tab* is pressed in this circumstance, the list element is moved in to a further nested list created inside the div. If *Shift-Tab* is pressed in this circumstance, the indented list element becomes a list element in the list it was previously inside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If *Tab* is pressed in this circumstance, the list element is moved in to a further nested list created inside the div. If *Shift+Tab* is pressed in this circumstance, the indented list element becomes a list element in the list it was previously inside.
```

For example, if a bulleted list within a `<div></div>` was changed to a numbered list, {productname} changed the bulleted list to a numbered list but, at the same time, created a new bulleted list that encompassed the now-numbered list.

Also, the list type change did not need to be from an unordered to an ordered list. The same erroneous list-creation happend if a round-bullet bulleted list was changed to a square-bullet bulleted list.

The {productname} 6.1 update corrects this. When changing a list’s type, {productname} leaves the parent element unchanged, as expected.

=== Custom elements added to otherwise blank lines were removed during serialization

Previously {productname} treated custom elements as empty elements. The {productname} schema was such that the `isEmpty` check returned `true` for all custom elements.

This caused custom elements added to empty lines to be automatically removed during serialization.

With this update the {productname} schema has been updated; the `isEmpty` check now returns `false` for custom elements. 

> As a consequence, it is now possible to add custom elements to empty lines in a {productname} document. added to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a consequence, it is now possible to add custom elements to empty lines in a {productname} document.
```
I'm guessing this shouldn't be here?

=== Pasting columns in tables could, in some circumstances, result in an invalid table

Errors in the logic of both the *Copy Column* and *Paste Column* commands could, in some circumstances, cause a Copy and Paste of table cells to produce an invalid table.

> With the insertion point in, for example, a cell in the third column of a 4x4 table, selecting *Table > Column > Copy Column* and then *Table > Column > Paste Column Before* produced a table that appeared to be a 5x4 table. But the now-5th column

Author: Missing portion of cut-off sentence added. I don’t know how I managed to lose it, but re-visiting the associated ticket brought the missing portion back to my head.

Also took the opportunity to make some small edits to the preceding  and following sentence.

The underlying cause was Autocompleter using `dom.getRoot()` as its root element. As of this update, Autocompleter uses the nearest parent block element as its root element rather than `dom.getRoot()`. And, consequently, trigger characters cause the suggestions display to present in nested list items inside populated list items, as expected.

=== Some template plugin option values were not escaped properly when doing replacement lookups with Regular Expressions

The {productname} `template` plugin processes the following settings using regular expression (regex) matches:

* `template_cdate_classes`

* `template_mdate_classes`

* `template_selected_content_classes`

* `template_replace_values`

* `template_preview_replace_values`

Previously, however, it did not escape or correctly handle all the generated regex expressions.

> In some cases it did not escape settings values for safe use within a regex and, in one case, incorrect handling caused word boundaries — `+\b+` — to not work as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases it did not escape option values for safe use within a regex and, in one case, incorrect handling caused word boundaries — `+\b+` — to not work as expected.
```
Settings is the old 5.x name.

> These errors have been corrected. In {productname} 6.1, template settings values are escaped properly. As well the incorrect handling has been corrected, and word boundaries work as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These errors have been corrected. In {productname} 6.1, template option values are escaped properly. As well the incorrect handling has been corrected, and word boundaries work as expected.
```

=== Copy events were not dispatched in readonly mode

When a {productname} document was in read-only mode, copy events were captured and killed.

This capture meant that the neither {productname}’s built-in copy-and-paste, nor the PowerPaste plugin’s copy-and-paste could intercept the copy event and act to copy (and, consequently, paste) the selected material.

Instead, copying from a read-only {productname} document fell-back to the host browser’s copy command.

> In some circumstances, this resulted in the subsequently pasted material containing unexpected characters. Specifically, normal spaces were sometimes replaced with non-breaking spaces, `&nbsp;`.

Reviewer 3: Code tags in adoc don't seem to be literal, they still allow HTML entities, so this needs to be double-encoded.

```suggestion
In some circumstances, this resulted in the subsequently pasted material containing unexpected characters. Specifically, normal spaces were sometimes replaced with non-breaking spaces, `&amp;nbsp;`.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some circumstances, this resulted in the subsequently pasted material containing unexpected characters. Specifically, normal spaces were sometimes replaced with non-breaking spaces, `+&nbsp;+`.
```
This is how to make it literal.

In {productname} 6.1, documents in read-only mode no longer captures copy events. Rather, they white-list copy events and pass them to the appropriate event listener (either {productname}’s built-in capability or the PowerPaste plugin).

Consequently, unexpected characters no longer present in material copied-and-pasted from read-only {productname} documents.

> === Ctrl-Shift-Home/End or ⌘-Shift-Up-arrow/Down-arrow did not expand the selection to a `contenteditable="false"` element if the element was at the beginning or end of a document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Ctrl+Shift+Home/End or ⌘+Shift+Up-arrow/Down-arrow did not expand the selection to a `contenteditable="false"` element if the element was at the beginning or end of a document
```

> The keyboard shortcut Ctrl-Shift-Home or ⌘-Shift-Up-arrow selects all material from the insertion point to a document’s beginning. Equivalently, Ctrl-Shift-End or ⌘-Shift-Down-arrow selects all material from the insertion point to a document’s end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The keyboard shortcut Ctrl+Shift+Home or ⌘+Shift+Up-arrow selects all material from the insertion point to a document’s beginning. Equivalently, Ctrl+Shift+End or ⌘+Shift+Down-arrow selects all material from the insertion point to a document’s end.
```

NOTE: These selection behaviors are not {productname}-specific. These keyboard shortcuts select in this fashion in virtually all applications.

> However, if the first element in a {productname} document had a `contenteditable="false"` property, the Ctrl-Shift-Home or ⌘-Shift-Up-arrow keystrokes did not extend the selection to the first element. That is, the selection extended to the trailing edge of the element with a `contenteditable="false"` property but no further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if the first element in a {productname} document had a `contenteditable="false"` property, the Ctrl+Shift+Home or ⌘+Shift+Up-arrow keystrokes did not extend the selection to the first element. That is, the selection extended to the trailing edge of the element with a `contenteditable="false"` property but no further.
```

> Equivalently, if the last element in a {productname} document had a `contenteditable="false"` property, Ctrl-Shift-End or ⌘-Shift-Down-arrow extended the selection only to the leading edge of this final element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Equivalently, if the last element in a {productname} document had a `contenteditable="false"` property, Ctrl+Shift+End or ⌘+Shift+Down-arrow extended the selection only to the leading edge of this final element.
```

This selection behavior (ie not allowing the generic keyboard shortcuts to extend the selection to elements with `contenteditable="false"` properties if these elements are at the start of end of the material being selected) is the native behavior of all host browsers supported by {productname}.

As of {productname} 6.1, however, an override has been introduced. This override enables {productname} to extend selection of `contenteditable="false"` elements at the beginning or end of {productname} documents using these generic keyboard shortcuts.

> Consequently, Ctrl-Shift-Home or ⌘-Shift-Up-arrow and Ctrl-Shift-End or ⌘-Shift-Down-arrow now works in {productname} documents as they do in almost all other applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consequently, Ctrl+Shift+Home or ⌘+Shift+Up-arrow and Ctrl+Shift+End or ⌘+Shift+Down-arrow now works in {productname} documents as they do in almost all other applications.
```

=== `<pre>` tags were not preserved when copying and pasting

Previously, when text set between `<pre>` tags was cut or copied and then pasted to a new line in a {productname} document, the `<pre>` tags were not preserved on pasting.

This update corrects this. `<pre>` formatted text copied or cut will now continue to be `<pre>` formatted text when pasted elsewhere in a {productname} document.

> === Preview and Insert Template dialogs now display the correct content background color when using dark skins

Reviewer 3: You added the word `themed` in the line below, which I think is the right way to approach this, but I suggest it needs to go in the heading as well :)

```suggestion
=== Preview and Insert Template dialogs now display the correct content background color when using dark themed skins
```

> Previously, when {productname} was in any dark mode (ie `skin_url` pointed to a dark themed skin), choosing *View > Preview* presented a background in the preview that was not consistent with the dark themed content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, when {productname} was in any dark mode (ie `skin` pointed to a dark themed skin), choosing *View > Preview* presented a background in the preview that was not consistent with the dark themed content.
```

Choosing *Insert > Insert template…* produced the same inconsistent presentation in the *Insert template…* dialog.

This update corrects this inconsistency. As of {productname} 6.1, no matter the current mode, the *Preview* and *Insert template…* dialogs now use the same background color as the current {productname} editor window.

=== Fixed incorrect word breaks in {productname} menus when the menu presented with a scrollbar 

In some browsers, including Safari and Firefox on macOS or Linux, items in {productname} menus wrapped incorrectly when the browser window was small enough to cause the {productname} menu to present with a scroll-bar.

In this circumstance, the menu item wrapped within a word, pushing individual characters on to an extra line.

Despite the visual mis-representation, the menus still worked as expected.

With this update, the visual mis-representation has been fixed. If {productname} menus must wrap, because of limited view space, the wrapping occurs at word boundaries, not within words.

> === The InsertLineBreak command did not replace selected content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== The `InsertLineBreak` command did not replace selected content
```

Previously, however, if there was material selected in a {productname} document and the `InsertLineBreak` command was issued, the added line-break did not replace the selected material. Instead, it, incorrectly, appended the line-break to the selection.

This update corrects this. Running `InsertLineBreak` when a {productname} document has material selected now results in the added line-break replacing the selected material.

=== Delete or Backspace did not work if the selection being deleted contained a `contenteditable="false"` element at the beginning or end of a document

If the first or last element in a {productname} document had a `contenteditable="false"` property and material within that element was selected, pressing the Delete or Backspace key did not delete the material inside the element with the `contenteditable="false"` property.

This update corrects this. In {productname} 6.1 material inside elements with a `contenteditable="false"` property show they have been selected and are deleted when the Delete or Backspace key is pressed, as expected.

=== `uploadImages` no longer triggers two change events if there is a removal of images on upload

> Previously, if an image was uploaded and then immediately deleted, the removal triggered a second change event, which, in turn, changed the undo stack.

Reviewer: This isn't quite correct... it was if an image failed to upload and was flagged for removal that the second change event occurred.

Author: Edited sentence in *`uploadImages` no longer triggers two change events* section:

-Previously, if an image was uploaded and then immediately deleted, the removal triggered a second change event, which, in turn, changed the undo stack.
+Previously, if an image failed to upload and was flagged for removal, the flagging triggered a second change event, which, in turn, changed the undo stack.

Given the most common, by far, reason for immediately deleting an uploaded image is the uploaded image being the incorrect image, this was undesirable behavior.

This update adds a new `dispatchChange` API (see below) which can take a change event and alter the current undo level without putting the changed undo level on to the `undoManager` stack.

`uploadImages` uses this new API in this circumstance and, as a consequence, uploading and immediately deleting an image now only generates one change event.

=== The selection is no longer incorrectly moved inside a comment by the `editor.selection.normalize()` API

> Peviously, if a {productname} editor had an HTML comment as its first element, the `editor.selection.normalize()` API set the selection to within the comment element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, if a {productname} editor had an HTML comment as its first element, the `editor.selection.normalize()` API set the selection to within the comment element.
```

With this update, {productname} now checks the initial selection location and resets it if is invalid.

[[changes]]
== Changes

{productname} 6.1 also incorporates the following changes:

=== Toggling fullscreen mode with the `fullscreen` plugin now also fires the `ResizeEditor` event

A bug in fullscreen mode toggling, in which notifications did not properly reposition, was addressed for this {productname} release.

As part of that fix, a change was made to the `fullscreen` plugin.

As of {productname} 6.1, toggling fullscreen mode with the `fullscreen` plugin also fires the `ResizeEditor` event.

=== Getting the editor’s text content now returns newlines instead of an empty string if more than one empty paragraph exists

Previously, if a {productname} editor instance contained nothing but blank lines (ie, more than one Return but no other material), the plain text version of the editor’s contents was an empty string.

In {productname} 6.1, the plain text version of the same material is two newline characters — `+\n\n+` — for each entered Return.

> NOTE: In the HTML version of such a document (viewable by choosing *View > Source Code*) , each Return was represented by a paragraph tag containing a non-breaking space entity: `+<p>&nbsp;</p>+`. This representation, which accurately presents the empty paragraphs as white space is unchanged in {productname} 6.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: In the HTML version of such a document (viewable by choosing *View > Source Code*), each Enter or Return was represented by a paragraph tag containing a non-breaking space entity: `+<p>&nbsp;</p>+`. This representation, which accurately presents the empty paragraphs as white-space is unchanged in {productname} 6.1.
```

=== The `end_container_on_empty_block` option can now take a string of blocks, allowing the exiting of a blockquote element by pressing Enter or Return twice

Previously, when the insertion point was within a `blockquote` element, and the `blockquote` element was the only block element in the {productname} document, there was no way of exiting the element without deleting all the text also within the element.

> As of this update, the `end_container_on_empty_block` has been changed such that pressing the *Return* key twice will exit the insertion point from a `blockquote` element. This is the same action that exits other block elements, such as lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of this update, the `end_container_on_empty_block` has been changed such that pressing the *Enter* or *Return* key twice will exit the insertion point from a `blockquote` element. This is the same action that exits other block elements, such as lists.
```

=== The default value for `end_container_on_empty_block` option has been changed to `blockquote`

Previously, the `end_container_on_empty_block` took a boolean value and, by default, that value was `false`.

As part of the changes made to enable the _pressing Enter or Return twice exits an in-document `blockquote` element_ change noted above, this option’s default value has been changed.

As of {productname} 6.1, `end_container_on_empty_block` takes the value `blockquote` by default.

NOTE: The boolean values, `true` and `false` remain valid values to assign to this option.

=== Custom elements are now treated as non-empty elements by the schema

Previously {productname} treated custom elements as empty elements. The {productname} schema was such that the `isEmpty` check returned `true` for all custom elements.

With this update the {productname} schema has been updated; the `isEmpty` check now returns `false` for custom elements. 

> === The `autocompleter` menu element is now positioned instead of the wrapper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== The autocompleter's menu HTML element is now positioned instead of the wrapper
```
Just to match the change made to the changelog since it was deemed this wasn't clear

> The `autocompleter` menu element — made available to a {productname} instance by the `editor.ui.registry.addAutocompleter()` function — presents a menu of formatting options when the `+/+` key is pressed in an active editor.

Reviewer: This entire sentence is incorrect, the menu element is not made available by the `addAutocompleter` API nor is it related to `/`, it's a part of the Autocompleter functionality itself. The `addAutocompleter` API is how autocompleters are registered though, so that part if vaguely related, but the `/` key isn't related at all and was just an example of a registered autocompleter.

Author: *`autocompleter` menu element* section opening sentence edited down to remove errors.

If the current viewport is too small to present the entire menu, access to the ‘overflow’ is ensured by presenting a scrollbar in the menu.

Previously, however, the rendering of this menu’s height (which, in turn, establishes whether a scroll bar is required) was done with the wrong element. Rendering was done by `tox-autocompleter`, not `tox-menu`. (`tox-menu` renders the height of all other {productname} menus.)

> In some circumstances this error resulted in the top or bottom menu borders to scroll out of view, making the meny appear unusable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some circumstances this error resulted in the top or bottom menu borders to scroll out of view, making the menu appear unusable.
```

Reviewer: Also `unusable` seems like the wrong term here... all it did was make it look like it was cut off.

Author: Typo already corrected locally. Edited ‘unusable’ out of sentence, also locally.

> This update corrects this. Rendering of the `autocompleter` menu height is now assigned to `tox-menu` and its menu borders do not scroll out of view.

Reviewer: This isn't really correct... it's the `overflow` style being applied to the wrong element that was the issue, not the `height`.

=== Link menu and toolbar buttons now always execute the `mceLink` command

> Selecting *Insert > Link…* or clicking the Link toolbar button did not, previously, execute the `mceLink` command. Equivalently, if the `link_quicklink` option was enabled, using the Ctrl+K or ⌘+K shortcut to open the Contextual Link Toolbar did not execute `mceLink` either.

Reviewer: The second sentence here is incorrect... previously the shortcuts did use the `mceLink` command, it was only the UI elements that did not.

Author: Corrected the second sentence.

With this update, `mceLink` is always executed when the Link dialog or Contextual Link Toolbar is opened.

=== Choice menu items will now use the `menuitemradio` ARIA role to better reflect that only a single item can be active

{productname} uses the https://w3.org/WAI/ARIA/[Accessible Rich Internet Applications] (ARIA) Working Group guidelines to make {productname} accessible to as wide a range of users as is possible.

To this end, some {productname} menu items were assigned the `menuitemcheckbox` ARIA role. However, screen readers report this role as meaning each item in the menu can be toggled independently. This is not true: the options in these menus are mutually exclusive.

The appropriate ARIA role for these objects is `menuitemradio` and, as of this release, this is the ARIA role these menu items are assigned.

Consequently, screen readers will, correctly, report the options in these menus as mutally exclusive.

[[improvements]]
== Improvements

{productname} 6.1 also includes the following improvements:

> === All help dialog links to `https://tiny.cloud` now include `rel="noopener"` to avoid potential security issues

Reviewer: If we're adding this to the title then we also need to make it very clear that this wasn't a current security threat, it's just an additional safety mechanism.

Author: Edited the sub-head down.

> `rel` is an attribute for the `<a>` element (and other elements). And setting this attribute to `rel="noopener"`  instructs the browser to load the resource referenced in the anchor tag in the same browsing context (ie, it instructs the browser to not open a new window).

Reviewer 3: This is incorrect? `rel="noopener"`, particularly when used with `target="_blank"`, instructs the browser to set the `window.opener` JavaScript API to `null`. By default it is a reference back to the page that opened the link. This is the security issue.

Before this change, developers were unknowingly trusting our website to not use this API to interfere with their website. We never would, but now we can't.

Author: Quoting my `git` commit messages is now a running theme:

Corrected errors in help-dialog-links-now-contain-rel=noopener-attribute-and-value write-up.

With this release, all {productname} help dialog links out to https://tiny.cloud[tiny.cloud] include the `rel="noopener"` attribute and value.

This provides basic protection against window opener attacks.

=== The `mceLink` command can now take the value `{ dialog: true }` to always open the link dialog

The `mceLink` command can take a new value, `{ dialog: true }`.

When set with this value, the *Link…* dialog will always open when `mceLink` is run.

=== Support annotating certain block elements directly when using the editor annotator API

Several new block elements can now have comments attached to them, including:

* Tables of contents
* Images
* Images with captions
* Code samples
* media in iframes
* embedded media
* embedded pages

> When comments are showing, a 3px wide yellow (hex color #FFE89D) rectangle presents around any element with a comment attached.

Reviewer: Likewise here I don't think we should be mentioning the color code, as there's 2 different shades by default and then it can change based on the skin used.

Author: Already removed reference to specific hex colour.

> === Support annotating certain block elements directly when using the editor annotator API
> 
> Several new block elements can now have comments attached to them, including:
> 
> * Tables of contents
> * Images
> * Images with captions
> * Code samples
> * media in iframes
> * embedded media
> * embedded pages
> 
> When comments are showing, a 3px wide yellow (hex color #FFE89D) rectangle presents around any element with a comment attached.
> 
> NOTE: Enablng this feature depends on changes made to the Core {productname} editor. As a consequence, adding comments to these elements requires both {productname} 6.1 or later and version 3.1.0 or later of the xref:comments.adoc[Comments Premium Plugin].

Reviewer 3: As this is the core changes section, I think keep it focused on core.

```suggestion
=== Support annotating certain block elements directly when using the editor annotator API

Several new block elements can now have annotations attached to them, including:

* Tables of contents
* Images
* Images with captions
* Code samples
* media in iframes
* embedded media
* embedded pages
```

Author: I’d already made sort-of-similar edits to this section along the way to getting to this commit suggestion.

So I couldn’t commit said suggestion.

The end-result of my first and second edits is an identical result to this, however.

=== Clearer focus states for buttons while navigating with keyboard

A blue outline now appears around all {productname} button types (primary, secondary, and tertiary) when such buttons are made the current focus using keyboard navigation.

This outline is similar to the presentation that denotes focus in {productname} text fields.

NOTE: When a mouse pointer is used to set focus, the blue outline does not appear and the button does not otherwise change its appearance.

[[additions]]
== Additions

As well, {productname} 6.1 includes the following additions:

=== New `sidebar_show` option to show the specified sidebar on initialization

It is now possible to initialize a {productname} editor with a sidebar visible and available but with focus still in the main editor.

To add a `sidebar_show: '<sidebar-name>'` to `tinymce.init`:

[source,js]
----

> tinymce.init({
>     selector: "textarea",
> 	sidebar_show: '<sidebar-name>',
> });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tinymce.init({
  selector: "textarea", // change this value according to your HTML
  sidebar_show: '<sidebar-name>',
});
```
Just fixing the formatting again (examples should use 2 spaces as indentation) and fixing so it abides by the style guide.

----

If the sidebar is custom, the sidebar should be setup in the `setup` section of `tinymce.init`:

[source,js]

> ----
> 	setup: (editor) => {
> 	  editor.ui.registry.addSidebar('<sidebar-name>', {
> 		tooltip: '<sidebar-name>',
> 		icon: '<icon-name>',
> 		onSetup: (api) => {
> 		  console.log('Render panel', api.element());
> 		},
> 		onShow: (api) => {
> 		  console.log('Show panel', api.element());
> 		},
> 		onHide: (api) => {
> 		  console.log('Hide panel', api.element());
> 		}
> 	  });
> 	}
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea', // change this value according to your HTML
  setup: (editor) => {
    editor.ui.registry.addSidebar('<sidebar-name>', {
      tooltip: '<sidebar-name>',
      icon: '<icon-name>',
      onSetup: (api) => {
        console.log('Render panel', api.element());
      },
      onShow: (api) => {
        console.log('Show panel', api.element());
      },
      onHide: (api) => {
        console.log('Hide panel', api.element());
      }
    });
  }
});
----
```

NOTE: The sidebar presents with no animation or other effect. It is just there, along with any other initialised {productname} editor components. Also, as noted above, the sidebar does not take focus, which remains with the main editor.

////
A common envisioned use is to initialise a {productname} editor with the Premium Plugin Comments sidebar automatically present.

After adding the Comments Premium Plugin, to add a Comments sidebar, add `sidebar_show: 'showcomments'` to `tinymce.init`:

[source,js]

> ----
> tinymce.init({
>     selector: "textarea",
> 	sidebar_show: 'showcomments',
> });
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: "textarea", // change this value according to your HTML
  sidebar_show: 'showcomments',
});
----
```

Author: Already corrected this locally.

////

=== New `newline_behavior` option controls what happens when the Return or Enter key is pressed or the `mceInsertNewLine` command is used

Setting `forced_root_block` to `false` or an empty string was deprecated in {productname} 6.0. This option now only accepts valid block elements.

However, some use cases relied on `forced_root_block: false` to keep material created in {productname} for use and presentation elsewhere from being placed inside the `<p>` block element.

The `newline_behavior` option has been added to {productname} 6.1 to cater to these use-cases.

`newline_behavior` affects what is added to a document when the `mceInsertNewLine` command is run or when any of the four _create a new line_ keystrokes are pressed: *Return*, *Enter*, *Shift-Return*, or *Shift-Enter*.

By default these keystrokes work as follows:

1. pressing *Return* or *Enter* creates a new paragraph.
+
For example, in ordinary text, pressing *Return* closes the current `<p>` tag, moves the insertion point in the {productname} editor to a new line and opens a new `<p>` tag.
   

> 2. pressing *Shift-Return* or *Shift-Enter* creates a new line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. pressing *Shift+Return* or *Shift+Enter* creates a new line.
```

+

> For example, in ordinary text, pressing *Shift-Return* enters two `<br>` tags and moves the insertion point in the {productname} editor to a new line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in ordinary text, pressing *Shift+Return* enters two `<br>` tags and moves the insertion point in the {productname} editor to a new line.
```

The `newline_behavior` option takes one of four values:

* `block`
+
`block` sets {productname} to treat all four keystrokes as if they are *Return*.
  
* `linebreak`
+

> `linebreak` sets {productname} to treat all four keystrokes as if they are *Shift-Return*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`linebreak` sets {productname} to treat all four keystrokes as if they are *Shift+Return*.
```

  
* `invert`
+

> `invert` swaps the behavior or *Return* and *Shift-Return* (and *Enter* and *Shift-Return*). That is, pressing *Return* results in *Shift-Return* behavior, and vice versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`invert` swaps the behavior or *Return* and *Shift+Return* (and *Enter* and *Shift+Enter*). That is, pressing *Return* results in *Shift-Return* behavior, and vice versa.
```

* `default`
+

> `default`, as its name suggests, sets {productname} to do what it does by default when *Return*, *Enter*, *Shift-Return*, or *Shift-Enter* are pressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`default`, as its name suggests, sets {productname} to do what it does by default when *Return*, *Enter*, *Shift+Return*, or *Shift+Enter* are pressed.
```

> NOTE: Two other commands that, in their effect, add new lines to a {productname} document are `insertParagraph` and `InsertLineBreak`. Their behavior is not affected by any `newline_behavior` setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Two other commands that, in their effect, add new lines to a {productname} document are `InsertParagraph` and `InsertLineBreak`. Their behavior is not affected by any `newline_behavior` option.
```

=== New `transparent` property for `iframe` dialog component

As part of the fix for correcting the presentation of {productname} content in the *Preview* and *Insert template* dialogs, the `iframe` dialog component now supports a new `transparent` property.

=== New `removeAttributeFilter` and `removeNodeFilter` functions added to the DomParser and DOM Serializer APIs

Two new filter functions — `removeAttributeFilter` and `removeNodeFilter` — have been added to the `DomParser` and DOM `Serializer` APIs.

Each function takes two arguments: `name` and `callback`.

`name` is required.

`callback` is optional.

`name` can take a comma-separated list of attribute or node names.

If both `name` and `callback` are provided, the functions remove the specified callback.

If only `name` is provided, the functions remove all callbacks for the specified name.

When only `name` is provided, the new functions work in equivalent fashion to the `editor.off` API, which removes all event handlers when only a name is provided.

> //// An example would be a good thing. Also for the updated docs proper.

Reviewer 3: This is rendered as text, not actually commented out

Reviewer: Yeah, `////` is a block comment not an inline comment... this should probably be this instead:
```suggestion
// An example would be a good thing. Also for the updated docs proper.
```

=== New `iframe_template_callback` option in the media plugin.

> The new `iframe_template_callback` option, provided by https://github.com/Namstel[Namstel], is an addition to the media plugin.

Reviewer: We don't normally like to link like this as it can be considered rude and lead to spam being sent, so we should remove this link.
```suggestion
The new `iframe_template_callback` option, provided by Namstel, is an addition to the media plugin.
```

> The `iframe_template_callback` option takes a function and replaces the default callback when the source URL matches a valid iframe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `iframe_template_callback` option takes a function and replaces the default callback when the provided source URL would produce an iframe embed.
```
This doesn't make sense as a URL can't match an iframe. I think this should work instead?

It works equivalently to the `audio_template_callback` and `video_template_callback` options, but for iframes.

> === New `dispatchChange` UndoManager API to fire the change with current editor status as `level` and current undoManager layer as `lastLevel`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== New `dispatchChange` UndoManager API
```
This seems like information that should be in the specifics below (and in fact is) rather than be in the heading.

The new `dispatchChange` API allows for the generating of an undo level outside the current editor’s context.

It takes the current editor undo level status as `level` and the current `undoManager` layer as `lastLevel`. When a change event fires, however, `dispatchChange` does not put the change in undo level on to the `undoManager` stack.

// An example would be a good thing. Also for the updated docs proper.

[[known-issues]]
== Known issues

This section describes issues that users of {productname} 6.1 may encounter and possible workarounds for these issues.

There are three known issues affecting {productname} 6.1.

=== Clearer focus states for buttons while navigating with keyboard does not work in older browsers

{productname} 6.1 introduced a new usability feature: a blue outline that more clearly highlights the currently active button when navigating {productname} dialogs with a keyboard.

This feature relies on the `:focus-visible` pseudo-selector.

> This pseudo-selector is supported in current and recent versions of all major browsers, but it is not supported in older browser versions.

Reviewer: This is incorrect... it doesn't work in recent Safari versions, it only works in the latest Safari version. If it worked in recent versions then we wouldn't need this known issue.
```suggestion
This pseudo-selector is supported in current versions of all major browsers, but it is not supported in older browser versions.
```

Specifically, for `:focus-visible` to work, the following browser versions, or later, are required:

[%header,cols="1,>1"]
|===
|Browser
|Oldest supported version

|Google Chrome
|86

|Microsoft Edge
|86

|Mozilla Firefox
|85

|Opera
|72

|Safari
|15.4
|=== 

=== If a `codesample` is the first element added to a {productname} document, the selection is incorrectly set to inside the `contenteditable="false"` block

When adding a `codesample` (by, for example, choosing *Insert > Code sample…*), the added material is placed within a `contenteditable="false"` block.

This block can be selected and copied but not edited. And, once copied, pasting it back adds a further `contenteditable="false"` block containing the added material, to the document.

In {productname} 6.1, however, if a `codesample` is the first material added to a document, {productname} incorrectly sets the selection to the added material within the block, and not to the block itself.

If this material is then copied and pasted, it is added to the document as editable text. This is not the expected behavior.

> There is a workaround: adding a blank line to an otherwise empty {productname} 6.1 document before adding a `codesample` results in the selection being sets to the added block, as expected.

Reviewer: This isn't the known issue that had to be documented... the known issue was that pasting a codesample over top of another codesample resulted in incorrect behaviour. The selection issue when it was the first element was a side case found and has been there for quite some time, so it's not something we should be mentioning here.

- [ ] Fix known issue

For information on the **A11ychecker** plugin, see: xref:a11ychecker.adoc[A11ychecker plugin].

=== Comments 3.1.0

The {productname} 6.1 release includes an accompanying release of the **Comments** premium plugin.

NOTE: Enabling any of these features depends on changes made to the Core {productname} editor. As a consequence, version 3.1.0 of the xref:introduction-to-tiny-comments.adoc[Comments Premium Plugin] requires {productname} 6.1 or later. 

**Comments** 3.1.0 introduces the following enhancements:

==== A new event log API

A new API, `editor.plugins.tinycomments.getEventLog()` is now available.

As its name suggests, it returns a log of all Comment-related events, including:

* when a new comment is added (and who added it).

* when a comment is edited (and who edited it).

* when a reply to a comment is added (and who added the reply).

* when a comment is resolved (and who resolved the comment).

* when a comment is deleted (and who deleted the comment).

The new API also supports an `after` option.

[source,js]
----
editor.plugins.tinycomments.getEventLog(

>   { after: '<iso-8601-format-time-stamp>' }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  { after: '2022-02-22T12:34:56Z' } // ISO-8601 standard: YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ
```
To match the changes done in https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/pull/2472/files?

Previously, the Save Comment was labeled *Save*. After field reports that end-users were interpreting this to mean the entire {productname} document would be saved on pressing this button, two changes were made.

1. The default label for this button is now *Comment*.
+
This new default presents for both new comments and replies to existing comments.

2. This default label can now be translated.

As is usual in {productname}, translation of this string is done wth `addI18n()`:

[source,js]
----
tinymce.addI18n('<optional-IETF-language-code>', {
   'Comment': '<translation>'
});
----

NOTE: When a comment is being edited, the default button, which writes the changes back and closes the Edit Comment dialog, is still labeled *Save*.

==== The `change` event was not fired when deleting all conversations

Previously, when all comments were deleted, existing undo levels were re-written but no new undo level was created. As a consequence no `change` event was fired.

This resulted in applications that relied on {productname} reporting its current state incorrectly assuming the now-deleted comments still existed.

> This update corrects this. In Comments 3.1.0, deleting any or all comments fires a `change` event. And a `changed` message is, consequently, printed to the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This update corrects this. In Comments 3.1.0, deleting any or all comments fires a `change` event.
```
This doesn't normally happen, it'd only be shown if you had an event listener setup to log.

==== An additional undo level was incorrectly created when the Comments plugin was loaded at {productname} initialization

Previously, when the Comments plugin loaded, a bug in the plugin caused {productname} to put the comment model data into a first undo level.

This caused {productname} to present as if an undo option was available when there was no action to undo (for example, the Undo button would enable if all that had changed as the insertion point moving).

This update fixes this bug. When the Comments plugin loads, the comment model data is no longer placed into an undo level and no Undo actions will present as available until there are actual changes available to undo.

==== Opening the comments sidebar via an editor command did not respect the `skip_focus` argument

If the Comments sidebar was opened with an editor command and `skip_focus` was set to true — `editor.execCommand("ToggleSidebar", false, "showcomments", { skip_focus: true });` — the sidebar still stole focus.

This update corrects this: `skip_focus: true` is honored, as expected, and the sidebar does not steal focus.

> ==== Comments did not blocking the Save UI while saving the data in callback mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Comments did not blocking the sidebar UI while saving the data in callback mode
```
I think this is a little clearer? as technically it could happen both when replying and saving edits.

Author: Corrected this locally and pushed because the gerund needed editing as well: s/blocking/block/.

When Comments was working in callback mode, it was possible to send multiple `save` actions from the Comment text-entry UI.

Save actions are asyncrhonous, so this made it possible to generate multiple saves of the same comment.

This update disables the *Save* UI when a comment is being saved, ensuring only one copy of a comment is saved at a time.

==== A selected `hr` block could be commented on when it should not have been possible

A new feature of the Comments plugin is support for annotating many block-level elements directly, using the editor annotator API (see above).

> A bug in this new feature, however, made it possible to, at least apparently, add a comment to an `+<hr>` block.

Reviewer: I don't believe this is correct, but @ltrouton can correct me if I'm wrong. This was not a bug in the new feature, it was an existing bug that happened before this feature was ever implemented.

Author: Edited to put the blame where it belongs: on a previously undetected bug.

This update corrects this. When the Comment sidebar re-displays the Comment text entry field for a further comment, the previous comment is not retained and presented. Rather, the *Add comment…* placeholder text displays, as expected.

==== The comment textarea will now shrink, as well as grow, in response to comment content changes

Previously, the comment text entry field would grow larger to more usefully display a long comment-in-progress but it did not shink back to its orignal size when the text in this field was deleted.

This Comments update corrects this. When text is deleted from a grown-larger Comments text-entry field, this field now snaps back to its original size.

For information on the **Comments** plugin, see: xref:introduction-to-tiny-comments.adoc[Comments plugin].

=== Enhanced Media Embed 3.0.1

The {productname} 6.1 release includes an accompanying release of the **Enhanced Media Embed** premium plugin.

**Enhanced Media Embed** 3.0.1 fixes the following bug:

==== Console warnings were logged incorrectly when the media plugin was not used

> Previously, a ‘`media_url_resolver` not registered’ warning was printed to the console when the Enhanced Media Embed was not used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, a `'media_url_resolver' not registered` warning was printed to the console when the Enhanced Media Embed was not used.
```
The markup for this didn't look right: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1575550/178645365-f15d7479-f872-4208-a898-0e2bc2f2274b.png)

==== If URL paths contained either a colon or an exclamation point (or both) PowerPaste’s link detection logic failed

If a colon or an exclamation point — `+:+` or `+!+` was present in the path portion of a URL, PowerPaste’s link detection logic treated the characters as, in effect, end-of-path boundaries. As a consequence, while the string was pasted into {productname}, the expected link was incomplete and incorrect.

For example, pasting the string

`https://example.com/!exclamation-point`

resulted in the following, incomplete, link and trailing text

[source,html]
----
<a href="https://example.com/">https://example.com/</a>!exclamation-point
----

Equivalent results occurred when URL paths contained the colon character (for example, `https://example.com/:colon`).

With this update, the link detection logic has been improved to capture and present such URLs correctly.

Now, pasting the string 

`https://example.com/!exclamation-point`

results in the following, complete, link and no trailing text

[source,html]
----

> <a href="https://example.com/!exclamation-point">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a href="https://example.com/!exclamation-point">https://example.com/!exclamation-point</a>
```
This HTML wasn't valid 🤷

`newline_behavior` affects what is added to a document when the `mceInsertNewLine` command is run or when any of the four _create a new line_ keystrokes are pressed: *Return*, *Enter*, *Shift-Return*, or *Shift-Enter*.

By default these keystrokes work as follows:

1. pressing *Return* or *Enter* creates a new paragraph.
+
For example, in ordinary text, pressing *Return* closes the current `<p>` tag, moves the insertion point in the {productname} editor to a new line and opens a new `<p>` tag.
   
2. pressing *Shift+Return* or *Shift+Enter* creates a new line.
+
For example, in ordinary text, pressing *Shift+Return* enters two `<br>` tags and moves the insertion point in the {productname} editor to a new line.

The `newline_behavior` option takes one of four values:

* `block`
+
`block` sets {productname} to treat all four keystrokes as if they are *Return*.
  
* `linebreak`
+
`linebreak` sets {productname} to treat all four keystrokes as if they are *Shift+Return*.
  
* `invert`
+
`invert` swaps the behavior or *Return* and *Shift+Return* (and *Enter* and *Shift+Enter*). That is, pressing *Return* results in *Shift-Return* behavior, and vice versa.

* `default`
+

> `default`, as its name suggests, sets {productname} to do what it does by default when *Return*, *Enter*, *Shift+Return*, or *Shift+Enter* are pressed.

Reviewer: This does not render very well... the content is also confusing me as it just looks like repetition. Maybe a description list might be better? Otherwise maybe we should just avoid duplicating like `block - sets TinyMCE to treat all four keystrokes as if they are a Return`.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1575550/178645730-ffe33e56-8494-4635-807f-73efa1343466.png)

Author: How about a simple table instead?

Author: NB: I’ve already pushed an update that puts this into a simple table.

With this update, the logic errors in the Copy Column have been corrected and copied table cells can now be safely pasted.

NOTE: These are the same logic errors noted in *Pasting columns in tables could, in some circumstances, result in an invalid table* above. The bug documented here pertains to the error introduced when copying.

=== The URL detection used for autolink and smart paste did not work if a path segment contained valid characters such as `!` and `:`

Previously, if a URL containing valid characters rarely used in URLs, such as `+!+` (the exclamation mark) and `+:+` (the colon), was pasted in to a {productname} document, {productname}’s URL detection treated these characters as boundaries and, consequently, incorrectly parsed the string and presented an incomplete link.

For example, if

`+https://example.com/:w:/index.html+`

was pasted into a {productname} document, the URL detection would cause the pasted text to be transformed into an html fragment as follows:

[source,html]
----

> <a href="https://example.com/">:w:/index.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a href="https://example.com/">https://example.com/</a>:w:/index.html
```
Just making this valid HTML markup and fixing the incorrect example.

However, some use cases relied on `forced_root_block: false` to keep material created in {productname} for use and presentation elsewhere from being placed inside the `<p>` block element.

The `newline_behavior` option has been added to {productname} 6.1 to cater to these use-cases.

`newline_behavior` affects what is added to a document when the `mceInsertNewLine` command is run or when any of the four _create a new line_ keystrokes are pressed: *Return*, *Enter*, *Shift-Return*, or *Shift-Enter*.

By default these keystrokes work as follows:

1. pressing *Return* or *Enter* creates a new paragraph.
+
For example, in ordinary text, pressing *Return* closes the current `<p>` tag, moves the insertion point in the {productname} editor to a new line and opens a new `<p>` tag.
   
2. pressing *Shift+Return* or *Shift+Enter* creates a new line.
+
For example, in ordinary text, pressing *Shift+Return* enters two `<br>` tags and moves the insertion point in the {productname} editor to a new line.

The `newline_behavior` option takes one of four values:

> [cols="1,1"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[%header, cols="1,1"]
```
This is missing the markup to make the first row a table header. IIRC this is the correct shorthand markup.
